README.md, before:

# Kitty Reader

An interactive application to help young children learn to read by breaking down text into syllables and guiding them with a friendly kitty character.

This project was bootstrapped with Vite and uses React, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS.

## Project Setup

### Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (version 18.x or newer recommended)
- npm (comes with Node.js)

### Installation

1.  Clone the repository or download the source code.
2.  Navigate to the project directory in your terminal.
3.  Install the required dependencies:
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

## Available Scripts

### `npm run dev`

Runs the app in development mode. Open [http://localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173) to view it in your browser.

The page will reload when you make changes.

### `npm run build`

Builds the app for production to the `dist/` folder. It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include hashes. Your app is ready to be deployed! You can upload the contents of the `dist/` directory to any static hosting service like GitHub Pages, Vercel, or Netlify.

Commit message:

feat: Configure Vite for subdirectory deployment
Update `vite.config.ts` to set the `base` option to `/kitty-reader/`, enabling proper deployment to a subdirectory. Update `README.md` to reflect this change and provide instructions for custom deployment paths.

README.md, after:

# Kitty Reader

An interactive application to help young children learn to read by breaking down text into syllables and guiding them with a friendly kitty character.

This project was bootstrapped with Vite and uses React, TypeScript, and Tailwind CSS.

## Project Setup

### Prerequisites

- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (version 18.x or newer recommended)
- npm (comes with Node.js)

### Installation

1.  Clone the repository or download the source code.
2.  Navigate to the project directory in your terminal.
3.  Install the required dependencies:
    ```bash
    npm install
    ```

## Available Scripts

### `npm run dev`

Runs the app in development mode. Open [http://localhost:5173](http://localhost:5173) to view it in your browser.

The page will reload when you make changes.

### `npm run build`

Builds the app for production to the `dist/` folder. It correctly bundles React in production mode and optimizes the build for the best performance.

The build is minified and the filenames include hashes. Your app is ready to be deployed!

## Deployment

This project is configured to be deployed to a subdirectory named `/kitty-reader/`. This is set in the `vite.config.ts` file.

If you are deploying to a different path (e.g., the root of a domain or a different repository name), you should update the `base` property in `vite.config.ts`:

```javascript
// vite.config.ts
export default defineConfig({
  plugins: [react()],
  base: '/', // For root deployment
  // or
  base: '/your-new-repo-name/', // For deployment to a different subdirectory
})
```

After running `npm run build`, you can deploy the contents of the `dist/` folder to any static hosting service like GitHub Pages, Vercel, or Netlify.
